Monday, March 3, 2025- During my first day at the City of Refuge's Cybersecurity training class, we were able to become acquainted with the COR staff and facility and learn more about the origin, mission and vision of the program. We were introduced to some amazing people who were very interesting as well as networking with our classmates, which brought a sense of belonging to be around like-minded individuals. We performed group activities, and got to know our classmates through an interesting ice breaker of writing down two lies and one truth about ourselves and the class guessing which one is true or not. The first day was a great day.
Tuesday, March 4, 2025- We were introduced to Adam Bricker, a phenomenal business owner. He discussed a plethera of information that would best contribute to being the best person we can be during our time with City of Refuge and beyond. Things like getting good sleep and learning how to learn and the power of forming good habits were all touched on in great detail and so much more. He also detailed personal experiences that allowed us to relate to his topic, or not. He also engaged the class through meaningful conversations throughout this time as well. This was a great introduction to who he is and the topics we needed to learn about.
Wednesday, March 5, 2025- On this day, we began with a few probing questions as it relates to the information we consumed yesterday: How am I going to put what I've learned into action? What journey did yesterday's knowledge take me through? Afterwards, Adam went through 5 things every cybersecurity professional should have: 1. A password manager 2. A VPN 3. End-to-end encryption email services 4. MFA for every site and 5. Next generation antivirus software. We also had a visit from the man who started City of Refuge, Bruce Deel. Bruce answered a few of our questions and left us with a gem: "If we are these 4 things, we will perform: Be prompt, be passionate, be prepared, and be present. There were so many great gems to implement as soon as I got home.
Thursday, March 6, 2025- On this day, we discussed the life that we wanted our future selves to live. This is a powerful exercise that I have heard for many years and have even begun to adopt before coming to this class. Today, however, Adam instructed the class to write about the gift that we would give our future selves before giving us a number of other personal skills/habits that we should all exhibit. Some habits that were mentioned for us to exhibit in our daily lives were: perform mindfulness meditation daily, read some form of content(podcasts, emails, books, online courses, etc) daily, set up a website that displays eveything you have learned throughout your tech journey, implemment dietary supplements into your daily regimen, and manage your time, calendar and energy with passion. These were just some of the habits along with great book recommendations given by Adam today.
Friday, March 7, 2025- Today, we ended this amazing week playing a game called Spaceteam that touched on the basis of what qualities make up the best technical team. It was fascinating to see my teammates split into groups and how everyone automatically appointed themselves roles based on what was happening in their group. Some people were leaders, diirectors, competitive players and even standbyers. We learned that we all play an intergral part of any technical team that we become apart of. At the end of the day, we all have different attributes that we bring to the table.
Monday, March 10, 2025- This day began our first real day of learning Linux. Mr. Darryl started us off with learning computer basics from what a motherboard is and all of its components, to the different hardware types that connect to the motherboard, and ending with the different types of operating systems and software any given computer may have. This is a very good start to understanding the basic functions of a computer.
Tuesday, March 11, 2025- Today we discussed the advantages and disadvantages of the two different types of hypervisors when setting up a virtual machine. One type of hypervisor runs directly on the computer hardware while the other has the operating system embedded. It took a lot of time to install the virtual machines on a lot of our laptops so that really took up the majority of our class time. 
Wednesday, March 12, 2025- We were introduced to Paul Farley of Trusted Sec and Ron Cofield of CoR where we discussed job interview questions and scenarios starting with formulating our life story to include answering the question, "What value do I currently bring to the table because of my life?". Paul mentioned that we should tailor our resumes to get through the AI machines that these companies are using these days and to work on something dealing with cybersecurity at home and be ready to show these things to a potential employer when the time comes.
Thursday, March 13, 2025- Our day started with learning the basic Linux GUI and CLI commands while finishing up the downloads for our virtual machines. GUI meaning graphic user interface which is what we are normally used to seeing when we open up our computers(apps, internet etc.). While CLI means command line interface which is where we input code to run the same apps we see in GUI. 
Friday, March 14, 2025- This day we wrapped up learning about the GUI desktop types and basic file system navigation and commands while finishing the last few downloads of Ubuntu. 
Monday, March 17, 2025- Today seemed to be the beginning of some really challenging Linux work. We discussed user management to get an understanding of when to use the /etc/password, /etc/group and /etc/shadow. We ended the day with cryptography algorythms, which are formulas that no one can break. One type we discussed was using a hash which is also known as the fact checker because it compares two results to prove identity.  
Tuesday, March 18, 2025- Standard permissions were the topic of discussion today to include ownership and permissions using the CHMOD and CHOWN commands to change the ownership and permissions of files/folders/directories. We also discussed stickybits and how they prevent anyone from modifying a file.
Wednesday, March 19, 2025- Today we started with an enneagram assessment to determine our personality types with Ron. We had a guest speaker, Donnovan Howard, who discussed what we should be doing during our first 90 days of getting hired in any job after telling us his story of making it to where he is now with his company after finishing with the same studies we are going through now with City of Refuge. Some points he mentioned were: Ask a lot of questions, set up meetings with team members, take copious notes and don't be afraid to shadow someone if they work in a department that you are interested in. Our day ended with Primous having us draft an elevator pitch that should include our name, position/aspiration, and value/enneagram result. A few people gave examples of what they came up with during this time.
Thursday, March 20, 2025- Package management was our topic of discussion today. Package management includes sourced and compiled computer language used to install/uninstall/update many of the functions related to programs in the system. Some of the commands we use for package management include: systemd, processid, top and ps. We ended our day discussing compiled, or binary, computer language to include how to use Mr. Darryl's chart. 
Friday, March 21, 2025- After completing our test today, discussed more on binary computer language. 
Monday, March 24, 2025- Today we started class with a review of binary computer language from nible and bits to ASCII and Unicode. This discussion then led into a more in-depth learning of networking fundamentals. After converting dotted decimals numbers to binary numbers and vice versa, we learned about the OSI Model and how it differs from the TCIP model. A cool way to memorize the layers of the OSI Model was mentioned by our TA, J.W.: Please Do Not Trash my Sausage Pizza Away. Which is the mnemonic phrase for Physical, Datalink, Network, Transport, Session, Preparation, Application, the seven layers of the OSI Model. 
Tuesday, March 25, 2025- We started class with a review of IPv4 class ranges and how they break into the private IP addresses. 
Wednesday, March 26, 2025- Today was an incredible day filled with an incredible experience. Let's talk about it: Our day started at Cox Enterprise, a privately-owned, multi-billion dollar tech company. Here, we toured the jobplace campus to include the Cox Automotive building, their courtyard, the cafeteria(for lunch, of course), an employee lounge area and levels one and nine to view the tech support and cybersecurity workspaces. Our wonderful tour guide was the eloustrious Hadji, who was also kind enough to show us his personal office on the ninth floor AND pay for half the crews' lunches, alongside our other host/sponsor, Gabriel. We learned all about the history of Cox Enterprise, which started in Ohio by governor, James M. Cox. His great- grandson, Alex Taylor, is Cox' current CEO.
Thursday, March 27, 2025- After our review of the information we learned on Tuesday, Mr. Darryl went straight into our learning  for today to include the differences between ping(test), tcpdump(commandline only) and traceroute(hop). We completed a successful installation of Apache2 webserver, then typed the ip into Microsoft Edge and was able to see the gui version of what we completed in Ubuntu. Derrick then showed us how to download another website that we will explore more of tomorrow. 
Friday, March 28, 2025-  Our topic of discussion was firewall/filter/routing which allows certain information to enter and leave a network through the Access Control List. A command that is used for firewall includes the ssh command which stands for secure shell. 
Monday, March 31, 2025- Today is the day of the test. Today's test determines whether we continue in this program or not. It is hard not to feel the anxiousness in the room at this time- everyone is on edge! We find out later today if we pass or not. Wish me luck!
Tuesday, April 1, 2025- God has been so good to me. I made it past the first 30 days of the City of Refuge's Cybersecurity course. Despite the overwhelming, debilitating feeling that overcomes me during this period of grief for me, I was informed that I could continue onto the next level of the course and enter into the full networking course. I am overwhelmed with so many different feelings during this difficult time of the year for me. Learning networking topologies and OSI model concepts with Mr. Darryl today keeps my mind focused on the "main thing". 
Wednesday, April 2, 2025- We were visited by Ron Cofield and Craig Baltes, the Director of Information Services at Aflac. Ron requested us to write three positive and two negative things about ourselves as it relates to our enneagram results. Then, we performed an exercise where we wrote about ourselves from the view of a coworker giving a speech at our retirement party. We were to look into which positions we should have based on our enneagram type and write the story as if we had already acheived that dream position. Afterwards, we heard from Craig, who gave us a look into his personal life and how he was able to get to the place he is now in his career. He was also kind enough to answer the questions we asked regarding Aflac's current and past procedures.
Thursday, April 3, 2025- Mr. Darryl discussed the physical layer of the OSI model which deals with wired and wireless transmitions of binary. Under the wired category, there are three wired cables: twisted cable, coaxial, and fiber optic. Under the wireless category, there is analog. It was interesting to see how all forms of wirless communication have been used for years now, and I am just now having a better understanding of each component and how they all work together or apart to produce the same ultimate result. 
Friday, April 4, 2025- Today, we participated in NPursuit's AI in the A day where we assisted the founder and CEO of NPursuit, Jahari, in conducting three discussions about AI as it pertains to business, resume writing and one other class. I was the time-keeper throughout the resume writing class that was hosted by Primous Howard. In his class, he talked about a number of ways to use a multitude of AI websites in efforts to ensure your resume gets you the job you desire. The first website being the most commonly used site, Chat GPT. On this site, Primous gave examples of how we can prompt Chat GPT to create the proper verbage on our resumes. Then, go to the next AI based website, Gamma, to create a visual presentation based on the information in your resume. This presentation gives a visual aspect to the information in your resume with vivid color details. We then visited another website that allowed you to practice interview questions based on the job description of your choice. This was a great way to practice answering the most common and not-so-common interview questions to its fullest extent as we sometimes don't. This was a great overall experience to see and connect with people in our community who are also interested in the current advancements in AI as we are. 
Monday, April 7, 2025- Friday, April 11, 2025- SPRING BREAK!!!
Monday, April 14, 2025- Happy Monday! We are back in class like we never left diving right into the second layer of the OSI model, Data Link(frames). Our eloustrious teacher, Mr. Darryl, touched on many different concepts of this layer and how it compares to the previous Physical layer 1 we learned about prior to today. In the Data Link layer, all of the wired components in the Physical layer are used to connect to different devices based on how they perform in different scenarios. For example, if I were working for a big company that had multiple location sites and wanted to expand their network to each physical site, we could literally install something called a multiplex device that would simplify the process of using multiple fiber optic cords to maybe one or two in efforts to make the network stretch across the company's entities. We also discussed how we would use things like repeaters and hubs to expand any attenuation that may occur with any digital or frequency data based on the topology type. We discussed the differences between switches and hubs to include the type of topology that each one contains inside as well as their physical appearances to include more spaces for twisted pair cords on a switch which, the combination of these factors are part of the reason why a switch can run a great deal faster than a hub.  
Tuesday, April 15, 2025- During today's lesson, Mr. Darryl explained the differences between straight, cross and  wiring when it comes to hooking up routers, pcs, hubs and swithces. According to him, if the item is on a different level, it is connected with a stright cable. If it is the same item or connecting to an item on the same level, it connects with cross wiring. The best part about today was being able to experience some of these items in person as well as through the virtual labs that we completed with JW.
Wednesday, April 16, 2025- We were greeted by none other than Ron Cofield this morning for our professional development day. We did a review of all of the lessons we have learned with him so far while we awaited the arrival of our speaker this morning, who unfortunately could not make it due to unforeseen circumstances. Afterwards, we went over some disciplines that highly successful people tend to do. Ron gave the example of a person that he is familiar with who went through the same program that we are in now. He mentioned how he reads a nonfiction book for one hour every day. It's interesting to know someone who does something that may seem so minute, however, the compounding knowledge that is gained from sticking to such a discipline is profound. After the class went on to give examples of some disciplines we have committed to ourselves, Ron turned the class over to our eloustrious TA, JW. Our time with JW was spent reviewing practice questions and answers as a class. This was so helpful in understanding the structure of the questions for the Network+ test we are to take soon. After lunch, we were greeted by Primous who discussed the importance of cultural conversations in the workplace where the question was posed about why we as Americans must accommodate other cultures that have no interest in doing the same for us. There were a lot of great points mentioned today. 
Thursday, April 17, 2025- A few of us were reflecting in class today about how thankful we are for having a great teacher like, Mr. Darryl. Especially when we hear so many stories from people about how hard networking is to learn and how some people had to learn networking with teachers who presented a language barrier. Our topic today for networking was subnetting. Mr. Darryl explained how to break an ip address down into different subnets based on the C number. We used Mr. Darryl's chart to configure the network and broadcasting number. The number between these two numbers are considered the host numbers that can be assigned to any device within said groups. We also practiced some subnetting on our own at the end of class where I learned that the gateway host can be assigned any number between the network and broadcast numbers as well. Today was a great introduction to subnetting.
Friday, April 18, 2025- We finished up learning the subnetting today with discussions about classless and classful subnet masks. Classful subnet masks are the default masks for each class while classless masks are masks that don't necessarily apply to the specified class. For example, 10.10.0.0/8 would be the default mask/CIDR notation for this IP class. A classless subnet would look like 10.10.0.0/24. The 24 is the default for class c subnetting, but it is the cidr for this class a IP address. We also touched on the differences between multicast, broadcast, unicast and anycast when comparing the differences between IPv4 and IPv6. 
Monday, April 21, 2025- Mr. Darryl walked us through the network layer which details the process of a router routing packets to other routers or to/from the LAN to the WAN. He explained how the packets and payloads have information added to it as it goes through the layers. Once it reaches the router, the header and trailer are stripped and the router uses the destination and source IP addresses to configure what it will be doing with the packets from there. It will either change the private IP address to a public address or keep the address the same if it is a public address already in order to get the information to where it needs to go. There are two classifications for the routing protocols, IGP and EGP and there are seven protocols/algorythms/rules for the two classifications. 
Tuesday, April 22, 2025- We delved into network address translation and how the routers get information to and from the LAN and WAN and back. 
